Quote,bookTitle,Author
How To Be Yourself, Ellen Hendriksen    
"The Reveal. Ultimately, social anxiety is the fear that whatever we’re trying to hide will be revealed to everyone. Put another way, social anxiety is about concealment. It’s less about fear and more about shame. Whatever your fear, it boils down to one thing: I am not good enough. And furthermore, everyone will see.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"Researchers call it post-event processing. it’s a postmortem review of the bloopers reel of your social performance. And it’s this focus on the lowlights that keeps social anxiety going strong over years and decades. To sum up, if the Inner Critic’s cherry-picking of past lowlights happens before a big moment it’s called anticipatory processing. If it’s after the fact, it’s post-event processing. Either way, it’s hyper-focusing on stuff gone wrong.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"The Inner Critic sends you a strong feeling, and that feeling feels like a fact. Because we feel inadequate, it must be true. Because we feel like a loser, we must be one. If your Critic is more of a feeling, in order to specify, specify, specify, try this: ask what that lurch in the stomach would say if it could talk. What would the urge to skip out on the wedding reception tell you if it was translated into words? Think of yourself as a cartoon character and ask what the thought bubble coming out of your head would say. Once the thought is verbal, it has a form, which means we can challenge it.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"So get specific. What exactly is the worst that can happen? What particular stupid thing do I expect I will do? Who, precisely, do I expect is going to judge me? As the defense attorney says, name names. Everyone will hate me turns into My boss will hate this particular presentation. Everyone will think I’m a freak turns into The five or six people I talk to at the party might notice my hands shaking and think something is wrong with me.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"Sometimes we get lucky and specify, specify, specify is enough to quell the anxiety right away. Once our specific fear is solidified, we recognize it for what it is. When Something embarrassing will happen is specified into I will go fetal and mute in front of the whole staff meeting, we realize it’s about as realistic as Barbie’s high-heeled feet.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"To sum up, when your Inner Critic kicks the anxiety into gear, first ask, What’s the worst that can happen? Answer as precisely as possible; remember: specify, specify, specify. Then ask: How bad would that really be? What are the odds? How could I cope?","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"Embrace is simply giving yourself the same support, warmth, and kindness you would get from a good friend or that you would offer a good friend. It’s a little help when you need it the most.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"In short, self-compassion is the opposite of self-judgment. Self-judgment looks for what is vulnerable inside us and pounces, whereas self-compassion looks for what is human and meets it with understanding, graciousness, appreciation, and encouragement.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"Compassion has three components: mindfulness, self-kindness, and an awareness that we are all in this together.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"Mindfulness is not your actual thoughts or experience. Rather, it is a method for watching your thoughts and experience. It is the realization: Oh, I’m thinking X, I’m hearing Y, I notice Z. What’s more, you can choose where you direct your attention. You can watch your thoughts, your breath, or the snaps, crackles, and pops of your own body. Just as you watch the image projected on the movie screen, you watch your thoughts or sensations float and dart across the field of your consciousness.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"You probably feel some embarrassment, guilt, or shame. Now shift things a little and think to yourself, I’m having the thought that I really screwed that one up big-time. It’s subtle, but different. With the second example, there is distance, there is awareness.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"Just as the movie isn’t reality, neither are our thoughts.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"We shift from I am not good enough, to, I hold a belief that I’m not good enough. And that difference is everything. In one astonishing moment of clarity, we shift from absolute truth to merely a thought. And thoughts? They can be changed. Or, to stick with the spirit of mindfulness, simply watched.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"When we’re tempted to bail on the neighborhood cookout because we’re worried we’ll be awkward and the neighbors will think we’re weird, we can ask the Inner Critic how it’s trying to help. The answer? Almost always, it will be, I’m trying to keep you safe. Like a neurotic mother hen, the Inner Critic will say, If you don’t go, they can’t hurt you. Just sit this one out and you guarantee you won’t be ridiculed. Better safe than sorry, so why don’t you just stay home this time? But using self-compassion, you might then tell yourself, Oh, sweetheart, I know you’re scared. You don’t know the neighbors very well and this is intimidating. You’re not alone—everyone feels awkward and weird sometimes and everyone was new to the neighborhood at one point. You know from experience that just showing up is the worst part. It gets better from there. You’ve done hard things before, and I know you can do this, too, even while you’re feeling nervous. The point is to be kind and supportive and, most important, brave.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"Self-compassion knows we all have our stuff, so why bother pretending we don’t? Self-compassion sees our inadequacies and failures and not only is cool with them but also provides a safe and caring place for them. Self-compassion loves the package deal that is you, or me. When you talk to yourself with compassion, you invert the Golden Rule—rather than treating others as you would like to be treated, you also treat yourself as well as you would treat others.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"It’s hard to talk kindly to ourselves when we are feeling our most vulnerable or when we are at our worst. It’s especially hard when we are afraid. But this is when we need it the most.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"Woo, I’m having the thought that whoever answers the phone is going to yell at me for trying to give him my money. That would never happen.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"Okay, Pranav, everyone gets anxious; everyone has their stuff. You’re working on this; you’re committed to trying. He sat up a little straighter. Plus, you can handle feeling awkward for a few minutes. If you survived the last few years, you can make some phone calls. It’s okay to feel awkward as long as you keep moving forward.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"So before her date, Nelly ran herself through Replace and Embrace. First she asked herself what she was afraid of and discovered a flock of questions running through her head: What if he doesn’t like me? What if he’s disappointed? What if he thinks he’s wasted his time? It’s impossible to argue with questions, so Nelly changed them to statements to make them easier to contend with: He won’t like me. He’ll be disappointed. He’ll think he’s wasted his time. But it was even more than that. In this one first date Nelly foresaw her entire future, and in that future she saw herself alone with nine cats, abandoned by friends long since married. I’ll be alone forever, was her worst-case scenario. Whoa, Nelly. With a thought like that running through her head, no wonder she was anxious.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"So first she asked herself, How bad would that be? Really bad! she thought at first. I don’t want to be alone forever. But something about saying the worst-case scenario out loud made her realize how extreme her phrasing was. Alone! Foreverrrrrrr! She paused. But I’m not going to be in solitary confinement or something, she thought. And this date doesn’t determine the rest of my life. And even if I never found a partner, I’d survive. It’s not what I pictured, but I wouldn’t die. By asking, What are the odds? she realized that shehey’d known each other for years?","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"He said, 'I just had to do it so many times. There were no longer any unknowns… there was nowhere for my imagination to go and create this kind of anxiety in me. I had seen it all before, I knew that I could handle it, and so I got to the point where I could just approach people very comfortably without any worry or anxiety about what their reaction would be.'","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"In Brandon’s case, the experience of approaching ten thousand strangers allowed him to confirm that most people are friendly, even in a hardened city.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"'If you want to be comfortable talking to strangers,' he said, 'the only way to do it is to approach strangers while you’re uncomfortable. You have to earn the comfort through being uncomfortable many, many times.'","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"It’s also called fake it till you make it. And it works. Why? When you see yourself doing it, you start to believe you can.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"We don’t have to wait until we feel like doing something before we do it. Instead, we start doing it, and the feeling will catch up.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"you gain confidence by doing things before you’re ready, while you’re still scared. Go through the motions and your confidence will catch up.", "How To Be Yourself", "Ellen Hendriksen"
"When you go ahead and try, your confidence will catch up as you build and learn", "How To Be Yourself", "Ellen Hendriksen"
"base your achievement on what you do rather than how you feel.", "How To Be Yourself", "Ellen Hendriksen"
"At a networking event, assign yourself the task of introducing yourself to three people.", "How To Be Yourself", "Ellen Hendriksen"
"So here’s the difference between structure that hinders you and structure that’s a stepping-stone to the ultimate role of being yourself:", "How To Be Yourself", "Ellen Hendriksen"
"Arrange yourself in a powerful, confident posture, sitting or standing in a way you imagine someone open, strong, confident, and solid would present. This creates two feedback loops: one to yourself and one to others. Adopting a posture of confidence sends a message of confidence to your brain. And looking confident, makes people treat you with respect. When you start to feel a cringe coming on, take a moment to arrange your body in a confident posture.", "How To Be Yourself", "Ellen Hendriksen"
"as you learn about social anxiety you’ll start to see it everywhere. For example, watch someone stand alone at a party for a moment and it’s almost guaranteed they’ll pull out their phone to quell their internal awkwardness.", "How To Be Yourself", "Ellen Hendriksen"
"So kill two birds with one stone by taking on the role of The One Who Puts Others at Ease.", "How To Be Yourself", "Ellen Hendriksen"
"The vast majority of people prefer that someone else strike up conversation and will be profoundly grateful if you initiate, even if they don’t admit their relief to you. So in the service of making others more comfortable, assign yourself the task of finding someone standing alone at an event and saying hello. Internally, they’ll thank you for it, but what’s more, you’ll come away feeling happier and stronger.", "How To Be Yourself", "Ellen Hendriksen"
"people who take the initiative to say hello not only brighten someone else’s day but also reap rewards for themselves.", "How To Be Yourself", "Ellen Hendriksen"
"The only word of caution: don’t choose a structure that allows you to avoid. Helping with the dishes after a dinner party is generous, but if it keeps you in the kitchen while everyone else is chatting over coffee on the stoop your building goes neglected.", "How To Be Yourself", "Ellen Hendriksen"
"So commit to being brave for one minute. Once you do that, it’s all downhill from there. As we stay with it, it gets easier.", "How To Be Yourself", "Ellen Hendriksen"
"The first approaches are the hardest: the first conversation, the first book club, the first softball practice. But don’t stop at one. At your next opportunity, do it again. And again. Each time, both the intensity and duration of your anxiety will lessen. Your mountain of anxiety will erode into a molehill. And your confidence will grow into a mountain.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"Call this Challenge List an Authenticity List. Think of it this way: What would you be doing if anxiety weren’t standing in your way? What do you want to do without overthinking? What would the you-without-fear do? Put those things, big and little, on the list.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"Even without social anxiety, making friends as an adult is hard. A meta-analysis of 177,000 participants in the prestigious journal Psychological Bulletin found that social circles expand until early adulthood and then shrink from there. Back in 2006, a large-scale survey found that more than half (53 percent) of Americans didn’t have any confidants who weren’t family. A quarter of American adults—one in four—had no confidants at all. Over ten years later, I’d be willing to bet the percentage has crept even higher.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"And you’d think that with so many people feeling isolated, like Maddy and Nora, everyone would be talking about it. But no one does. There’s a stigma to admitting you have no friends. Or that you’re lonely. Either we feel like we don’t know anyone or we know enough people but don’t feel close to them. Either way, we often think, 'What’s wrong with me?' Nothing’s wrong with you, but social anxiety magically confers filters that are getting in your way.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"Sometimes it’s our presumptions: we unconsciously create too stringent a filter and rule out too many people. It might be demographic: Oh, she’s married/single—that’s not going to work. It might be perception: Oh, she’s so busy—that’s not going to work, or, She probably has a lot of friends already—that’s not going to work. Or we might just have a low tolerance for ambiguity: if she’s not 100 percent unambiguously welcoming, we rule her out—that’s not going to work.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"Those of us prone to social anxiety tend to look for an instant, capital-F Friend. Without even realizing it, we’re looking for a ready-made BFF with whom we feel connected right away. We wish we could walk into an event and walk out arm in arm with a new buddy (or two!). But on this planet, that rarely happens. Is someone friendly to you? Great, they’re in. This is the only bar. You’re not friends yet, but you’re friendly with each other. Some of your friend candidates will stay at this level.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"Repetition. We tend to make friends with the people we see most often."
"Remember, if they’re friendly, they’re in. Think of everyone you’re friendly with or could be friendly with. There. I bet you just broadened your social life substantially.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"Folks susceptible to social anxiety don’t often talk about themselves. We’re polite and pleasant, but others often get the impression we’re distant, formal, or otherwise keep the world at arm’s length.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
"People are touched when you show up to their events, and more important, it moves your friendship to another context and therefore another level.","How To Be Yourself","Ellen Hendriksen"
